Camp Harmon has been here since
1964 it was donated by
two amazing women the Harmon
sisters that felt that this land needed
to be given to an organization that
would help people with special needs
Camp Harmon is more and then just a
camp it's a home away from home
for people with special needs
ranging in age from eight up to sixty
five
and it's just a place where our campers
know to be their place it's their place
their brothers can't come their sisters
can't come
they get to get away from their families
it's safe it's fun
we have traditional songs and games and
activities that they absolutely love
they talk about it
from the moment they leave to the moment
they come back what they're going to do
next year how to make it different
fun
and they get to reunite with friends that
they only see once a year and it's just
it's a magical magical place
so registration day at Camp Harmon is a
very unique experience if a family has
never been to Camp Harmon they might be
a little taken aback by how warm and
welcoming the staff is how much
we are so excited to see these campers
the counselors have studied a campers
file for quite a long time to learn this
camper to to know the most about them so
they can provide them with the best care
possible
and they honestly get disappointed if
they don't show up because they've
already developed a bond with these
campers
the parents of campers drive into camp
we get excited there's another parent
another camper coming the moment that
they get out of the car and we
learn who that is we celebrate everybody
starts yelling "yeah Jimmy's here
from cabin four It's so great
we're so excited"
"Cabin 5!" Counselor: "Nice to meet you
I'm Kaitlin."
A lot of times the parents and the
campers are like wow
am I a rock star am I famous am I...
what's the deal but that's just the way
it is
that's the way it is at Camp Harmon
we say
campers are kings and queens and their
is no such thing as "no" at Camp Harmon
for our campers
we treat them as if they are royalty as
if they are a super star
therefore they want to come back year
after year because it is so absolutely
special to them another wonderful aspect
of Camp Harmon is that we do have two
registered nurses onsite at all times
and that means twenty four hours a day
they are here on call
and we uh... they are available to
take take care of the campers the same
way they would be taken care of it home
that means any medications that they
take any special needs that they may
have
we've had campers with tracheotomies
that have to be changed and cleaned
we have campers that have
you know special things that have to happen
in the middle of the night
you know it's not an issue we are here
to provide services to the campers
and to the families to make sure that
the campers are safe well cared for the
same that they would be at home
and so that the parents or caregivers
can also have a little bit of a respite
and be in total trust that the campers are
going to be well-taken care of
the dietary restrictions for campers can
vary depending on a disability, allergies,
medical sensitivities,
we are able to accommodate all those
different sensitivities or
allergies and special diets
so even though we might have a a regular
menu to provide food we also have an
amazing cook
she is available prior to the camp
so that parents can call in and say "No
my camper has to have this special
something or other, they have to have this
they can't have sugar, they can have this,
they're a gluten-free diet. So parents can work
directly with our cook
to make sure that she is able to provide
the same diet that that camper would have at home
the ratio for Camp Harmon
is three to one
that means that we have three campers to
one counselor they are other times when
we might have a one on one camper and
the parents will sign up the camper
ahead of time knowing that
if somebody is a one-on-one camper we
know that they are not necessarily able
to participate in group activities on a
regular basis
maybe they can go but they need to leave
immediately
maybe they have a little more medically
sensitive issues that need to be dealt
with
uh... but the basic ratio is
three-to-one that means in every cabin
they'll be six campers two counselors to
a lot of times three counselors just
depending on how things play out and so
those counselors are responsible for
the wellness the happiness the fun
goings of the campers in that
particular cabin
and they are with them
twenty four-hours-a-day from the time
they check in to the time they leave
so they really do develop a strong
bond and they even continued to you know
stay in touch afterwards the campers
become friends with the counselors
counselors become friends with the
campers and they want to know what's
going on in each other's worlds after the
fact
on the last day of camp it's always
bittersweet because the campers are tired
they've had so much fun
they've been around their friends
they're ready to go back to their beds
and their t_v_'s and such and at the same
time they don't wanna leave and there's
many tears on the last day because they
have developed sense
amazing friendships with the campers and
the counselors
and so we do memory books they have
photos they get signatures and their
friends they chit-chat
and then parents come and they look at
their parents like what are you doing
here
and oh there's mom there's dad
and it's very hard for the parents to
know that they just haven't been rearing
at the bit to see their parents but
at the same time the parents are so
relieved that they were able to leave their
campers and know that they had a great
time and they really don't want to go
that's the way it should be
i personally am humbled by the
experience here at Camp Harmon this
is one of the most beautiful places i
have ever spent and it has been an honor for
me to be able to spend time in the
redwood trees listen to the birds
it's and magical place and I
am so
just in awe of the Harmon sisters and how
with their generosity they provided this
for such a magical
experience for so many people to be
able to take advantage of
i'm hoping that you might find
interest in it and come check it out and
to see how magical this place is